As the Emperor’s main enforcer, Darth Vader
quickly made himself well known across the
galaxy as he spearheaded many of the Empire’s
military campaigns to claim and later maintain
its grip over the galaxy.
While he sparked a deep fear in the Empire’s
enemies, that same fear also spread among
the Imperial ranks as officers were brought
up to speed with who Vader was and his true
authority when they were first introduced
to him by Palpatine.
First in Canon, Darth Vader was officially
introduced to the officers of the Empire following
a few failed assassination attempts on the
Dark Lord.
Initially, Vader just came out of nowhere
and was given command of Imperial units without
much clarification of who he was or his relation
to Palpatine.
This caused some conflict among Imperials
that Vader worked with, with many of them
not taking him seriously at first as they
didn’t understand his true power.
In reaction to the disrespect Vader faced
at first, he tended to kill the Imperials
out right.
That made Palpatine unhappy, as he didn’t
want to rule an Empire of dead men.
So he told Vader to knock it off and that
he couldn’t go around killing everyone who
made him angry.
As such, the Imperials that worked alongside
Vader continued to view and treat him as if
he were just some brute that wore a mobile
life support system.
However, a few weeks later Vader discovered
that a few high ranking Imperial officers
had staged a few assassination attempts on
him, likely revenge on him for how he treated
them earlier.
He couldn’t conclude exactly who these men
were, but he knew they came from the high
command staff.
So Vader came to Palpatine and explained what
he knew and that he believed it was necessary
to punish a few Imperials as an example to
the rest.
Palpatine agreed, also viewing this as a great
opportunity to officially establish Vader’s
role in the Empire to his military.
So Palpatine called up all the higher ups
of the various branches of the Imperial military
to formally introduce Vader.
He explained to them that Vader spoke on behalf
of himself, that an order from him was to
be treated as an order directly from himself.
They were all to clearly pass this information
down to their men to eliminate any future
confusion.
Once Palpatine finished, Vader then stepped
up and called up 5 random names, asking them
to approach forward.
He explained how he survived 2 assassination
attempts and discovered they came from the
higher command of the officer core.
He didn’t know exactly who planned these
assassinations, but that didn’t matter to
him.
He would always survive, but they would not
if they continued with their actions.
Vader then force choked the 5 unfortunate,
randomly selected officers as an example to
the rest of the room.
The room quickly was swept with fear as everyone
witnessed their fellow peers just get executed
with a power they didn’t understand.
And for most of them it was enough to never
question Vader’s authority again.
In Legends, Darth Vader was officially introduced
to the Empire a few days following the creation
of the New Order.
Before the arrival of the two Sith, the officers
were all crowded into the audience chamber,
casually making small talk with each other
as some talked about how they were given honorary
awards for accomplishments they didn’t fully
deserve.
A few mentioned their doubts on what really
happened to the traitor maked Jedi, and how
their accomplishments in the Clone Wars were
being erased and instead given to regular
generals.
Upon the arrival of Palpatine and Vader, the
room went silent and stood at attention.
When they first saw Palpatine, many gasped
in shock to see how deformed he was from the
apparent attack the Jedi staged on him.
Hoping to make it clear to everyone what had
happened to him, Palpatine decided to set
the story straight of how the Jedi tried to
assassinate him.
But while he was giving his explanation, an
Imperial officer yelled out how he couldn’t
believe what he was hearing.
In reaction to the officer’s outburst, Vader
angrily asked the man if he was suggesting
that the Emperor was lying.
Palpatine then decided now would be an excellent
time to introduce everyone to his new enforcer,
clarifying that Vader spoke on behalf of himself.
Vader then demanded the officer to answer
his question again.
The officer tried to suggest that a mistake
must of been made, as the Jedi he knew would
never have done the act the Emperor suggested.
But before he could finish his case, the man
was lifted up and force choked by Vader in
front of everyone.
His lifeless body was then slammed into the
crowd, with Vader sarcastically asking if
anyone else had any more questions for the
Emperor.
With the room remaining silent, Vader then
established the new rules of how absolute
loyalty was to be expected at all times.
And that due to the current chaotic state
of the galaxy, that resignations were temporary
not allowed.
Once everyone was dismissed to leave, some
officers began to have doubts about what they
had originally signed up for, as they realized
how little their lives meant to the Emperor.
Others believed that once the galaxy was stabilized,
that they would be allowed to resign, but
in the meantime it was best to keep a low
profile and not show any signs of treachery.
While others who held great ambitions were
ready to do whatever it took to climb the
ranks of the empire and in a way impress the
unnaturally powerful being they just witnessed
that was Darth Vader.